This text is a conceptual exploration where the boundaries between database aesthetics and narrative theories converge in an index of interconnected ideas. The web-based reader navigates the multifaceted world of Lev Manovich's theories and the works of filmmakers and creatives, exploring the symbiosis between database aesthetics and narrative structures. Within this space, the text unfolds in a series of subchapters, each contributing a unique facet to the overarching theme. Embracing the non-linear and dynamic nature of our subject matter, these subchapters are woven together, not always following a linear trajectory but creating a structured mosaic of concepts.

The design of the website imitates the essence of my exploration. The visual and interactive elements relate to the principles of database aesthetics, constituting an experience that parallels the dynamic and interconnected nature of digital information. From subchapter to subchapter, the design elements serve as integral components of the narrative, embodying the concepts discussed in the text-instances. This narrative challenges established structures, embracing the fluidity of ideas within an interactive interface and attempts to make the most out of the potentials of digital publishing.

What can be the positive contributions of the introduction of sophisticated, designed characters and narratives to the world of creative direction. What are some properties of narrative that can be used in design and analysis processes? What is the relationship between narrative and the database? This text examines the real and potential opportunities given to designers by introducing elements of viewer activation, character-creation, or certain non-standard narrative strategies. I do it through a series of descriptions, examples and theories, always regarding works that have been considered widely successful in utilising the aforementioned methodologies.
